Now I would like to define the term level of effort, or LOE.
LOE is used to define the amount of work you must
complete to get something done.
LOE is measured in days or hours per day,
per week or per month, or in a relative manner such as large,
medium or small, and scheduled within a relative timeframe.
For example,
how much elapsed time do you need in order to expend the 500 hours of work?
Well, we need 5 months elapsed time since I can only afford 100 hours per month.
Now let's see some other examples of level of effort for each
work type and how that relates to the gap.
Let's look at some level of effort examples.
For operations, LOE's are small and certainly smaller than the other two.
An example, enhance the user profile page for a healthcare enrollment system.
Maybe that is about 50 to 100 hours, say.
For projects,
LOE's are more of the medium size and more analysis is usually required as well.
A simple example may be,
add a new module to enable users to fill out a healthcare application online.
This could be 4, 000 hours possibly.
Now for initiatives, LOE's are much,
much larger with large budgets and senior executive oversight,
that is people with a lot of influence and a lot at stake.
An example may be to develop a brand-new healthcare application that may
take a multi-million dollar investment to do that.
So you can see a general size or level of effort or scale of what
constitutes an operational project or an initiative-type activity.
Now,
accepting my premise that all work can be categorized
into one of these three categories,
let's look at the gap and how it relates to these activity categories.
Now let's compare and contrast the gap versus the business
activity categories we just discussed.
For operations, the gap and level of effort is small.
There is much less business and technical knowledge required,
and therefore has a smaller impact to the business
and an easier gap to straddle.
Now projects have a larger level of effort than operations,
and hence you have a larger gap to straddle with greater
business requirements and technical solutions.
This to me would be much more challenging of a gap.
Lastly, for initiatives, these activities are large or very large,
and your gap may be huge.
You have an enormous amount of requirements with complex
interdependencies and complex technical solutions.
By far, this is a much larger and more challenging and demanding gap to straddle.
Now let's look at what you need to know to best straddle these gaps.
Now let's look at the gap versus the business and
technology knowledge you need to know.
For operations, the gap is typically the smallest of the three activity types,
and your knowledge of the business may be on a few systems and the technical
knowledge you need would be less as well since those systems will likely
already exist with the particular technology stack.
Hence,
you do not need to know as much about the business and
the technology challenges are small.
For projects, technical BA knowledge requirements will broaden.
Projects are typically delivering new business functions and features,
so you need to know how they add value to the business and their priorities,
plus you will need some knowledge of the target technologies so when
the technical team walks you through their plans,
they can make some sense to you that their solutions would,
in fact, enable success.
Based on the number or size of projects,
the technical BA needs to be very experienced.
Now, on to initiatives.
This is the grand-daddy of them all.
For initiatives, these activities are large or very large.
In fact,
corporate-wide activities require an enormous amount of
strategic business domain knowledge,
which may require very complex technical solutions to solve.
A very seasoned and experienced technical BA is
absolutely required for this work type.
So a newer,
less experienced technical BA may fit very nicely in the operations area.
Someone more experienced with the business and
technology would be best placed on projects.
And lastly,
a very experienced technical BA would be required for initiative activities.
Think about your role in your company for a moment.
Where are you positioned?
Do you perform more operations work, project work or initiative work,
or maybe a mix?
Where would you rather be positioned? Are you ready for the challenge?